---
title: "1984"
author: "George Orwell"
published: 1949
pages: 322
goodreads: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11059672-1984
goodreads_id: 11059672
cover: https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1328327049l/11059672._SX98_.jpg
read: 2018-05-20
start: 2018-05-06
rating: 5
spoiler: true
summary: "A future in my past written in a distant past. What an amazing book. Orwell's writing has lasted near perfectly (i.e. modern and in context) some 70 years later (which frankly blows my mind)."
---

A future in my past written in a distant past. What an amazing book. Orwell's writing has lasted near perfectly (i.e. modern and in context) some 70 years later (which frankly blows my mind).  
  
The story breaks into three parts as we make our way into Winston's mind. Part 1 reads like I'm learning around his world and how he experiences it. The mundane work, the acceptance of his role, whilst he secretly scratches his mind back.  
  
In part 2, I feel like I'm taking into Winston's heart as he re-experiences the world and the life and love that still exists in it. I loved some of the expressions and sadness that came with those expressions. Such as Winston knowing that what he was doing was against the "rules", and that it was simply an inevitability of being caught and tortured.  
  
He believes that he's given up his body already to the world of 1984, and when the Thought Police catch him, they'll take his mind, and so long as he protects his heart, he'll live on.  
  
Part 3 is mostly from inside of Winston's mind, as O'Brian works firstly to break Winston's mind, but then puts it back together in The Party's form. The place that O'Brian (and thusly The Party) comes from is entirely bleak and worse, believable in my own reality today.  
  
O'Brian utters phrases like:  
  
> Nonsense. The earth is as old as we are, no older. How could it be older? Nothing exists except through human consciousness.  
  
Bleak.  
  
Eventually, there's no winning. There's no happy ending. There never could be. Winston's heart is pierced, he's _made_ to love Big Brother, and only then, when he's fully remade in The Party's eyes, does it end. For him, and for us.
