---
title: 'My 2025'
date: 2025-12-31
image: /images/
draft: true
tags:
  - personal
---

# My 2025



<!--more-->

## Some context of the now for future me

I've just read through my opening to the [end of 2024](https://remysharp.com/2024/12/31/my-2024) and wow, not much has changed. Impressively it's gotten worse.

Highlights being Palatine Action being proscribed and protestors in prison on a (now running) 50 day hunger strike. Labour government actually managing to be worse (though they did - finally - [lift the two child benefit cap](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cwyx4ggyj44o)), stoked fires over immigration via politicians both from Reform but also Labour, continued rise of The Right (across the globe), trans rights (to exist) being quashed by our country via the EHRC and hate groups (ie. Mrs Harry Potter), genocide continued to run and be ignored by our country's leaders, and the cheese puff continues to run the world's most powerful country.

I have however found some light in the political sphere. I regularly watch [Pod Save the UK](https://crooked.com/podcast-series/pod-save-the-uk/) on YouTube, and found Zack Polanski's campaign to lead the greens - and _a lot_ of what I believed. So I joined the Greens specifically to cast a vote and not only did he win, but the Greens have seen a huge surge adding over 120,000 new members (me included!).

/ what I like about the greens

## Work

- consisted of Oak until mid-August
- Allowed me to work on FFConf

## Projects

- none, though I have been experimenting with AI to create my own mini tools ranging from a tool to give me details about a browser, to tracking who's turn it is to pick the movie on Saturday (and _what_ we watched), to a mega simple

### FFConf



### Hardware and hacking



### Home Assistant



### Donations

- Choir with No Name - homelessness and marginalised groups
- Trans charity (notaphase?)
- Forward Facing?

## Personal



### Next bits

