# My 2015

## Work

- Returned to 1 man band, dropping office in Feb
- Built the backend using node to an (previously) independent cinema chain (which I can't name, but I can say that I run ffconf at one of these cinemas!)
- Worked with eHealth Africa
- Started as the first dev on Snyk and have been working with Snyk since July

## Side projects

- inliner rewrite
- confwall
- bind.js
- autocache

## ffconf 2015

- Huge success (thankfully)
- Strong diversity on stage, working hard on improving that with the delegates
- Diversity programme
- Hoping for big changes next year

## Speaking

- Turned down a lot of speaking, in favour of beng closer to family and partly because I didn't feel I had anything to say.
- As a replacement speaker for JSCamp Romania, I started writting the content for a deck that would become "The toxic side of free", then I went on to give the talk 7 times this year, including at jsconf.us (my 5th talk at a jsconf).
- I also gave a talk entitled "The art of debugging" at fronteers and introduced the Progressive Enhancement panel at Edge 2015 - both an honour to be part of.

## Blog

Last year I rewrote all the backend of my blog to be driven by static markdown files, and this revitalised my blog (in my eyes). Particularly seeing the [archive](/archive), I gave myself the aim to get *at least* two posts published each month.

So far I've managed that, combined with keeping fully completed posts in draft state, and I'm hoping to continue it.

I prefer to write short and to the point blog posts, but traffic and page views show me that actually my long-*long* form writing is the most successful. My top posts this year were:

- [The toxic side of free. Or: how I lost the love for my side project](/jsbin-toxic-part-1)
- [The art of debugging](/the-art-of-debugging)
- [I am a web developer](/i-am-a-web-developer)
- ["Why I don't like open source" – my thoughts](/dont-like-open-source)
- [bind.js: Tiny two way data binding](/bind)

## Personal

- Hardest year as a parent, had to go through sleep training with our littlest which is horrible but sometime necessary
- 30 inch waist (from 38, 3-ish years ago)!!!
- Continuing with gym & diet, I tried bulking more seriously for the first time, and got up to a 90kg bench press (I weigh 70kg) and 100kg seated press. I could see the difference (subtly) in my body, and also tried cutting (or purposely losing fat) which
- I started on anti-depressants in mid-November, something I possibly should have tried 10 years ago, combined with more counselling (that I've yet to get in place) this has already had a positive impact on my life, though it feels like